Many people believe that television violence has a negative effect on society because it promotes violence. Do you agree or disagree? Use specific reasons and examples to support your response.
According to some people, elderly drivers should be required to reapply for their driving licenses because with age comes diminished vision, hearing, and reaction time. How do you feel about this issue? Explain what you think should be done and why.
Medical researchers, cosmetic companies, and others often perform experiments on animals. Many people feel that experimentation on animals is wrong and should be stopped immediately because animals do feel pain, and there are other alternatives. How do you feel? State your position and explain your reasons.
In order to save money, your principal is thinking about canceling all field trips for the remainder of the year. Write an essay persuading him or her to allow students to continue attending field trips. Use specific reasons and examples to support your response.
Some people are actively involved in promoting and supporting a cause, such as the release of international political prisoners or protecting the environment. Is there a cause you actively support? Write an essay convincing readers to support that cause.
Since the cloning of the sheep Dolly, there has been much debate over whether or not human beings should be cloned. Many people feel this is a violation of the natural order of things and that all research in the area of human cloning should be banned. Others feel that this is a natural progression of science and human evolution and that research in the area of human cloning should be a priority. How do you feel about this issue? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Many parents give children a weekly or monthly allowance regardless of their behavior because they believe an allowance teaches children to be financially responsible. Other parents only give children an allowance as a reward for completing chores or when they have behaved properly. Explain what you think parents should do and why.
Many people volunteer their time to help others, either through non-profit organizations, churches, or other charitable venues. Write an essay convincing readers to find a charity and volunteer their time.
All-girl schools have been gaining popularity in recent years because of the belief that girls learn better when they aren’t   competing with or intimidated by boys, who statistically get more attention in the classroom. Do you think single-sex schools are a good idea? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
We all have favorite activities that we enjoy. Write an essay convincing readers to try the activity that you enjoy most.
Research shows that the average American watches as much as six hours of television each day. Do you think this is too much? Write an essay convincing readers to spend less time in front of the TV.
Many junior high and high schools around the country now require students to spend a certain number of hours each term doing volunteer work or community service. Some people believe this is an excellent idea that promotes good citizenship and cultivates compassion. Others feel that forced volunteerism is not volunteerism at all. How do you feel about this issue? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
As part of the “war on drugs” and in reaction to an increase in school violence, many schools across the nation now conduct targeted searches of student lockers and backpacks. Although the Supreme Court has ruled that public school officials have the right to search students’ persons and property when they have reasonable cause to suspect weapons or drugs, many people feel this is a gross violation of students’ right to privacy. Others feel that since school officials are responsible for the well-being of students while they are in the building, they have the right to search for drugs or weapons at any time. How do you feel about this issue? State your position and explain your reasons with specific examples.
Write an essay convincing readers to break a specific habit that is harmful to their physical, emotional, or financial health.
In many countries, citizens are required to serve in the military for a year or more. Do you believe the United States should institute a similar practice? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Have you ever traveled to a place that you found very meaningful and rewarding? Write an essay that persuades others to visit this important place.
Many of us spend hours in front of our computers and communicate more by e-mail or instant-messaging than in person. Some people believe that this is good because it helps shy people communicate more openly with others. Others believe that computer communication prevents us from developing interpersonal skills and limits our ability to have meaningful relationships with others. How do you feel about this issue? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Some companies offer a paternity leave that allows fathers to stay home with their newborns for several weeks while still earning partial pay and benefits. Do you think this is a good policy? Why or why not? Explain your answer.
According to some health organizations, many foods on our grocery store shelves are made with genetically modified ingredients. Most of these foods, however, do not have a GMO (genetically modified organism) label. Do you think there should be a law requiring manufacturers to label foods containing GMOs? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
More and more farmers and food manufacturers are genetically modifying their crops to reduce susceptibility to disease, improve flavor, and reduce costs. Do you think genetically modifying foods is a good idea? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
A few decades ago, many families had half a dozen or more children. Nowadays, more and more families are choosing to have only one or two children. Are smaller families better than larger ones? Why or why not? State your position and support it with specific reasons and examples.
Representatives of credit card companies can often be found on college campuses offering special incentives to get students to fill out credit card applications. Many people feel that this takes advantage of students, who are often low on cash during their college years. Others feel that it is an excellent way to help students begin to build credit and learn financial responsibility. How do you feel about this issue? Take a position and use specific reasons and examples to support your argument.
Good habits improve our physical, emotional, and/or financial health. Select one of your good habits and write an essay persuading readers to make that habit a part of their lives.
What is your all-time favorite movie and why? Write an essay persuading readers to watch this film.
Today, there are more and more reality shows on television. Do these shows make good television? Why or why not? Explain your answer using specific reasons and examples.
Is “an eye for an eye” a good basis for determining an appropriate punishment? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your position.
Many cities suffer from serious air and noise pollution—as well as endless traffic jams—because of too many cars. Some people feel that cities with extensive public transportation systems should ban passenger cars and force people to walk, bike, or use public transportation. Do you think this is a good idea? Why or why not?
On today’s talk shows, guests and audience members often argue heatedly with each other, and on more than one occasion, guests and audience members have been hurt. Do today’s talk shows go too far? Explain your answer.
Have you ever made a change that improved your life or the lives of others? Write an essay that convinces readers to make a change for the better.
The singer and songwriter Bob Dylan once wrote, “A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and gets to bed at night and in between does what he wants to do.” Do you agree with this definition of success? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Carpooling, recycling, and planting trees are all activities that are good for the environment. Write an essay convincing readers to actively participate in one of these activities.
The Internet includes many websites with images and content that are inappropriate. Should websites like these be censored by parents? Why or why not? State your position and support it with specific reasons and examples.
Some people prefer to live in the quiet of the country; others prefer the hustle and bustle of the city. Which do you think is the better choice? State your position and support it with specific reasons and examples.
Is there a book that you feel should be required reading for everyone? Write an essay persuading your audience to read this book.
Some people go right on to college after high school; others take a year or more off to work or travel. Which do you think is the better choice? State your position and support it with specific reasons and examples.
Some people think of the United States as a nation of “couch potatoes.” Write an essay persuading readers to be more physically active.
You have been asked to write a brochure to attract visitors to your hometown. Write an essay that convinces people to visit the place where you live.
Nowadays, the private life of a politician is hardly private. In your opinion, should we be so concerned with the private affairs of a politician or political candidate? State your position and support it with specific reasons and examples.
Today’s top professional athletes often have salaries and bonuses in the tens of millions of dollars. Do you think these athletes deserve such high compensation? Why or why not? Explain your position and use specific reasons and examples.
Many parents do not allow their children to play with toy guns. In your opinion, is this a wise decision? Explain what you think parents should do about toy guns and why.
For centuries, people have wondered about the possibility of life on other planets in the universe. Do you believe extraterrestrial life exists? Write an essay persuading others to share your point of view.
Many science fiction stories deal with the possibility of being able to “design” our children by choosing the specific physical and personality traits we would like them to have. Do you think this is a good idea? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
If someone discovered a formula that would enable us to live forever, would that be a blessing or a curse? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Some educators argue that every child in every school should have access to computers. Others believe that the value of computers in the classroom is overrated and that computers may actually interfere with the learning process. In your opinion, how important are computers in the classroom? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
Should the United States invest more time, money, and effort in space exploration? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your position.
Some people believe that students aren’t learning enough in high school. Should school standards be higher? Explain your answer using specific reasons and examples.
It has often been said, “Ignorance is bliss,” and “What you don’t know won’t hurt you.” Do you agree with these statements? Why or why not?
Some people fish to eat what they catch; others fish simply for the “sport,” returning the fish to the water after they’ve caught it. Many animal rights activists argue that sport fishing is cruel and should be abolished. How do you feel about this issue? State your position and support it with specific reasons and examples.
Many schools employ security guards and have installed security equipment such as video cameras and metal detectors in the building. In your opinion, how should security in public schools be handled? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Across the country, public places such as libraries and museums are now smoke-free environments, and restaurants are required to have separate smoking and non-smoking sections. Some smokefree advocates are now campaigning to ban smoking in all restaurants and bars. Do you think this is a good idea? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
In a small minority of schools across the nation, students do not earn grades; rather, they receive regular written and oral evaluations of their work. Some people believe that this is more effective for learning than the grading system, which they believe rewards students unevenly and encourages a competitiveness that is counterproductive to learning. How do you feel about this issue? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Is reading fiction a waste of time? Why or why not? Explain your answer using specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Many schools offer students who are native speakers of another language the opportunity to take classes in their native tongue so that they can more easily assimilate and better understand the material. Some educators believe that this is a disservice and that these students should be immersed in the English language. How do you feel about this issue? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Many people immigrate to the United States because they believe that it is better than their native country. In fact, many people believe that the United States is the best country in the world. Do you agree? Why or why not?
Some people think that school cafeterias should be required to provide low-fat and/or vegetarian lunch options to accommodate the eating habits of all students. Do you agree or disagree? Explain your position and use specific reasons and examples as support.
Elementary and secondary schools around the country are beginning to actively address the problem of bullies. In your opinion, is bullying an issue that should be addressed by schools or left to parents? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Most private schools require students to wear uniforms. Should public school students wear uniforms too? Argue for or against school uniforms for public school students. Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Do you think that the movie and/or TV ratings systems are effective or useful? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Many people believe that honesty is the best policy. In your opinion, is it ever okay to lie? Explain your answer using specific reasons and examples.
In order to solve your school’s recent litter problem, your principal asked students to take better care of the campus, but the litter problem continued. Your principal’s reaction is to cancel all extracurricular activities until the problem is resolved. Do you agree or disagree with his reaction? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
If an alumnus donated a large sum of money to your school, how do you think that money should be spent? Write an essay convincing school officials to allocate the money in the way you think is best for the school.
Many people feel that American society is too competitive. Do you agree? If so, is this a good thing or a bad thing? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
If it were up to you to choose one item from the twenty-first century to place in a time capsule for future generations, what would you choose? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice, explaining both the item’s significance and the reasons why it embodies the culture of the early twenty-first century.
Who makes a better leader: someone who is loved, or someone who is feared? Take a position and explain your answer.
Some people are concerned that many teachers are not sufficiently qualified for the classroom and argue that they should be required to pass competency tests before they are allowed to teach. Do you agree? Why or why not? Explain your answer with specific reasons and examples.
If it were up to you to choose one professional (a doctor, a reporter, a scientist, a politician, an actor) to travel aboard the next space station, who would you choose and why? Use specific reasons and examples to support your choice.
In our increasingly global society, many people feel that all students should be required to learn a foreign language before graduating from high school. Do you agree? Why or why not? Explain your position using specific reasons and examples.
Today, more and more colleges and universities are offering not only individual courses but entire degree programs online. Some educators worry that online programs do not provide the same quality as an on-campus education and that in an online program, students can get others to do their work. Others believe online courses offer convenience and flexibility enabling students, who might otherwise not be able, to earn a degree and complete their educations. In your opinion, should colleges and universities offer degrees entirely online? Why or why not?
Is a good education a right or a privilege? Why do you think so? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
The network that runs your favorite television show has suddenly decided to cancel it. Write a letter convincing the station to continue running the show.
What would improve your hometown? Write an essay convincing town officials to make a change that would improve your neighborhood.
Many people complain that American news shows focus too much on sensational items, such as local crimes and celebrity gossip, and spend too little time on important national and international news. In your opinion, should television news devote more time and coverage to international news and global issues? Why or why not?
Most students enjoy the long stretch of summer vacation, but some parents and educators feel that two and a half months is too long a break from school. Some argue that students and families would be better served if the school year were extended through July, with a three or four-week break in August, a longer winter break, and a week off each in the spring and fall. Does this sound like a good idea to you? Why or why not? Explain your answer.
Many people feel that the use of surveillance cameras in public places, such as parking lots, is a good idea that can help ensure our safety. Others worry that too many cameras violate our right to privacy and give law enforcement officials too much power. In your opinion, should we install more surveillance cameras in public places? Why or why not? Support your position with specific reasons and examples.
It has often been said, “a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.” Do you agree? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
Recent studies have shown that students often perform better on exams if classical music is played softly in the background. However, some students may find the music distracting. Should schools play classical music during exams and/or allow students to listen to it on headphones? Take a position and explain your answer.
All across the country, state laws require drivers to wear seatbelts. Not everyone believes the use of seatbelts should be mandatory. What do you think? Make a case for or against mandatory seatbelt use. Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Most schools require students to read “old” texts such as ancient Greek tragedies or Shakespearian plays. Many students wonder why they should read these texts instead of more contemporary material. Make a case for or against the reading of classical literature in English classes.
Should a parent be a child’s disciplinarian, or a child’s best friend? Take a position and explain your answer using specific reasons and examples.
More and more Americans are deciding to eliminate meat from their diets and become vegetarians. Do you think this is a good idea? Argue for or against becoming a vegetarian. Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
With the current popularity of sport utility vehicles many people believe that it’s more important than ever for Congress to pass legislation requiring automobile manufacturers to use more fuelefficient engines. Do you agree that such a law should be passed? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your argument.
Every year, millions of people visit zoos around the world. But some people believe that zoos are inhumane and that animals should not be kept in captivity. Do you agree? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Politicians come from all sorts of professional backgrounds, from lawyers and chief executive officers to actors and even professional wrestlers. On a few notable occasions, politicians with criminal backgrounds have even been elected. In your opinion, should candidates with a criminal record be allowed to run for office? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Students who don’t want to do their homework can find dozens of sites on the Internet that offer essays for sale. Do you think this is a legitimate business, or should these enterprises be shut down? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Do you think the SAT or ACT exam is an accurate measure of a student’s aptitude for college? Support your position with specific examples.
It has often been said that we can lie with silence as well as with words. Do you agree? Why or why not? Explain your answer.
Many students complain about having to learn history. Why do we need knowledge of the past? Write an essay convincing skeptics that learning about the past is important.
Woodrow Wilson once said, “Friendship is the only cement that will hold the world together.” Do you agree? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
Charles Simmons said, “Live only for today, and you ruin tomorrow.” Do you agree? Why or why not? Explain your answer.
Thomas Edison, the renowned inventor, is famous for having said, “Genius is one percent inspiration, ninety-nine percent perspiration.” Do you agree with this definition of genius? Why or why not?
Many of us are fond of music that speaks to our particular generation. Write an essay that convinces others not in your generation that your music is worth listening to.
Alexander Smith said, “The great man is the man who does a thing for the first time.” Do you agree with this definition of greatness? Why or why not?
The eighteenth century writer Samuel Johnson wrote, “Ignorance, when voluntary, is criminal.” Do you agree? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
For decades, elementary school children across the country had been required to stand and say the Pledge of Allegiance to the American flag every school-day morning. That practice has recently been called into question, and standing and reciting the pledge is now voluntary. In your opinion, should students be required to say the pledge, should it remain voluntary, or should the practice be completely abandoned? State your position and use specific reasons and examples to support it.
Currently, Americans pay taxes based upon how much they earn: the higher their income, the higher the percentage of that income they must pay in taxes. Many people have been arguing that a flat tax, in which everyone pays the same rate regardless of income, would be a more equitable and desirable tax system. Which of these two tax systems do you think is best, and why? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
The great inventor Charles F. Kettering said, “The price of progress is trouble.” Do you agree with Kettering’s assessment of progress? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
The writer Thomas Mann said, “War is only a cowardly escape from the problems of peace.” Do you agree with this claim? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Activist Jeannette Rankin once said, “You can no more win a war than you can win an earthquake.” Do you agree with this statement? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
Write an essay explaining why you should be admitted to a particular college.
The Roman leader Seneca said, “A great fortune is a great slavery.” Do you agree with this claim? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.
If your readers were to learn a foreign language, which language do you think they should learn, and why? Write an essay convincing readers to learn that particular language.
Many albums and CDs now contain stickers warning parents that the lyrics of some of the songs may not be suitable for children. Some people argue that simply putting a sticker on a label is not enough. What do you think the record industry should do to warn parents about inappropriate lyrics? Explain what you think should be done and why.
Should we devote time and money to building a space station on the moon or Mars? Why or why not? Explain your answer.
Should people lease or buy new cars? Make a case for the option that you think is best. Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
The inventor and statesman Benjamin Franklin said, “Money never made a man happy yet, nor will it. There is nothing in its nature to produce happiness.” Do you agree with this statement? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Some states have now made it illegal to drive while talking on a hand-held cellular phone. Do you think this is a good law that should be passed in other states as well? Why or why not? Explain your answer.
The poet W. H. Auden wrote, “Machines are beneficial to the degree that they eliminate the need for labor, harmful to the degree that they eliminate the need for skill.” Do you agree? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
Are students learning enough science in high school? Argue for or against an expanded science requirement in secondary schools.
According to an old Greek proverb, “All things good to know are difficult to learn.” Do you agree? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
William Hazlitt wrote, “Man is a make-believe animal—he is never so truly himself as when he is acting a part.” Do you agree? Explain your answer using specific reasons and examples.
Imagine that you have a relative who is unfamiliar with computers and has never been on the Internet. Write an essay convincing this relative to get a computer and get online.
Imagine that you have found a great apartment to share, but your new roommate doesn’t want any pets. Write an essay persuading your roommate to let you bring your pet with you.
According to a Czechoslovakian proverb, “Better a lie that soothes than a truth that hurts.” Do you agree? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
Imagine that your high school (or alma mater) has decided to do away with a club to which you belong (or used to belong). Write an essay persuading school officials not to disband that organization.
“Original” fairy tales, like those recorded by the Brothers Grimm, often contain violence. Some literary critics and child psychologists believe these tales are good for children because they address children’s real fears, feelings, and desires. Others argue that contemporary “sanitized” fairy tales still convey the main themes of the tales and are far more appropriate for children. How do you feel about this issue? Use specific reasons and examples to explain your answer.
Imagine that you have made it to the final round of interviews for a new job. Convince your prospective employers that you are the one who most deserves the position.
Most high school schedules include a study hall period several times a week. Is study hall a waste of time, or a necessary break from class? State your position and use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Imagine that you have a friend who doesn’t have any money in his or her savings account. Convince this friend that it’s important to create and follow through with a savings plan.
During the Christmas holiday season, images of Santa Claus are everywhere, and young children often line up to take pictures with adults dressed as Santa. Some people feel that children should not be led to believe that Santa Claus is real. Do you agree? Why or why not? Use specific reasons and examples to support your position.
Is there something that you believe is truly worth fighting for? Write an essay persuading others that this cause is worth a fight.
Write an essay convincing your best friend to try your favorite brand of junk food.
Imagine that you have been asked to help raise money for a local charity. Choose a charity and write an essay convincing readers to contribute to the fundraising campaign.
What was your most precious childhood possession? 
What were your favorite childhood shows and characters? 
What were your favorite picture books when you were little? 
What things did you create when you were a child? 
What places do you remember fondly from childhood? 
Have you ever felt embarrassed by things you used to like? 
Do you wish you could return to moments from your past? 
Was there a toy you wanted as a child but never got? 
What objects tell the story of your life? 
What are your best sleepover memories? 
What’s the best gift you’ve ever given or received? 
What’s the most memorable thing you ever got in the mail? 
What nicknames have you ever gotten or given? 
What have you learned in your teens? 
What personal achievements make you proud? 
What are some recent moments of happiness in your life? 
What are you grateful for? 
What rites of passage have you participated in? 
What advice would you give younger kids about middle or high school? 
What can older people learn from your generation? 
What do older generations misunderstand about yours? 
Who is your family? 
What have you and your family accomplished together? 
What events have brought you closer to your family? 
What’s your role in your family? 
Have you ever changed a family member’s mind? 
How do you define ‘family’? 
What are your family stories of sacrifice? 
What possessions does your family treasure? 
What hobbies have been passed down in your family? 
How much do you know about your family’s history? 
Did your parents have a life before they had kids? 
How close are you to your parents? 
How are you and your parents alike and different? 
Do your parents support your learning? 
What have your parents taught you about money? 
Do you expect your parents to give you money? 
How permissive are your parents? 
Do you have helicopter parents? 
How do your parents teach you to behave? 
How do you make parenting difficult for your parents? 
If you drink or use drugs, do your parents know? 
Do you talk about report cards with your parents? 
Would you mind if your parents blogged about you? 
How well do you get along with your siblings? 
How well do you know your pet? 
What role do pets play in your family? 
What is your racial and ethnic identity? 
Have you ever tried to hide your racial or ethnic identity? 
How do you feel about your last name? 
What’s the story behind your name? 
What are your favorite names? 
How have you paid tribute to loved ones? 
Would you most want to live in a city, a suburb or the country? 
How much does your neighborhood define who you are? 
What’s special about your hometown? 
What would you name your neighborhood? 
Who is the ‘mayor’ of your school or neighborhood? 
Who are the ‘characters’ that make your town interesting? 
What would a TV show about your town spoof? 
What ‘urban legends’ are there about places in your area? 
What local problems do you think your mayor should try to solve? 
Do you know your way around your city or town? 
Have you ever interacted with the police? 
How often do you interact with people of another race or ethnicity? 
Who would be the ideal celebrity neighbor? 
What is your favorite place? 
How much time do you spend in nature? 
What small things have you seen and taken note of today? 
What would your dream home be like? 
What is your favorite place in your house? 
How important is keeping a clean house? 
Is your bedroom a nightmare? 
Do you plan on saving any of your belongings for the future? 
With your home in danger, what would you try to save? 
What would you put in your emergency ‘go-bag’? 
Have you ever lost (or found) something valuable? 
What is your personal credo? 
What motivates you? 
What makes you happy? 
What are you good at? 
How much self-control do you have? 
How good are you at waiting for what you really want? 
What role does procrastination play in your life? 
When in your life have you been a leader? 
How well do you perform under pressure? 
How well do you take criticism? 
Are you hard or easy on yourself? 
How full is your glass? 
Do you have a hard time making decisions? 
How good are you at time management? 
How productive and organized are you? 
How would your life be different if you had better listening skills? 
How competitive are you? 
Do you perform better when you’re competing or when you’re collaborating? 
Do you take more risks when you are around your friends? 
Do you unknowingly submit to peer pressure? 
How much of a daredevil are you? 
What pranks, jokes, hoaxes or tricks have you ever fallen for or perpetrated? 
How do you react when provoked? 
How often do you cry? 
Do you think you’re brave? 
What are you afraid of? 
What are your fears and phobias? 
What are your personal superstitions? 
Do you like being alone? 
How impulsive are you? 
Are you a novelty-seeker? 
What annoys you? 
Do you apologize too much? 
Do you have good manners? 
Are you a saver or a tosser? 
Are you more introvert or extrovert? 
Are you popular, quirky or conformist? 
Are you a nerd or a geek? 
What would your personal mascot be? 
What assumptions do people make about you? 
What challenges have you overcome? 
What do you do when you encounter obstacles to success? 
What are your secret survival strategies? 
How do you find peace in your life? 
How have you handled being the ‘new kid’? 
Do you ever feel overlooked and underappreciated? 
How stressed are you? 
How do you relieve stress? 
Does stress affect your ability to make good decisions? 
What challenges have you set for yourself? 
How often do you leave your ‘comfort zone’? 
What did you once hate but now like? 
Does your life leave you enough time to relax? 
Do you set rules for yourself about how you use your time? 
Is ‘doing nothing’ a good use of your time? 
What’s cluttering up your life? 
What work went into reaching your most difficult goals? 
When have you ever failed at something? What happened as a result? 
When have you ever succeeded when you thought you might fail? 
What life lessons has adversity taught you? 
What’s the most challenging assignment you’ve ever had? 
What kind of feedback helps you improve? 
Is trying too hard to be happy making you sad? 
Do adults who are ‘only trying to help’ sometimes make things worse? 
What are five everyday problems that bother you, and what can you do about them? 
How do male and female roles differ in your family? 
Do parents have different hopes and standards for their sons than for their daughters? 
Is there too much pressure on girls to have ‘perfect’ bodies? 
How much pressure do boys face to have the perfect body? 
How did you learn about sex? 
How should parents address Internet pornography? 
What experiences have you had with gender bias in school? 
What have been your experiences with catcalling or other kinds of street harassment? 
Do you know boys who regard girls as ‘prey’? 
Do you consider yourself a feminist? 
How do you help? 
What ethical dilemmas have you faced? 
Would you help an injured stranger? 
When is the last time you did something nice for a stranger? 
Have you ever ‘paid it forward’? 
How much do you gossip? 
How comfortable are you with lying? 
Have you ever taken something you weren’t supposed to? 
What could you live without? 
Do you ever feel guilty about what, or how much, you throw away? 
Do you ever eavesdrop? 
How important is your spiritual life? 
Do you believe that everything happens for a reason? 
Can you be good without God? 
Are you less religious than your parents? 
Can you pass a basic religion test? 
What can you learn from other religions? 
Who is your role model? 
Who are your heroes? 
Who inspires you? 
What’s the best advice you’ve gotten? 
Who outside your family has made a difference in your life? 
If you had your own talk show, whom would you want to interview? 
To whom, or what, would you like to write a thank-you note? 
What leader would you invite to speak at your school? 
What six people, living or dead, would you invite to dinner? 
Are you distracted by technology? 
Do you always have your phone or tablet at your side? 
What tech tools play the biggest role in your life? 
What new technologies or tech toys are you most excited about? 
To what piece of technology would you write a ‘love letter’? 
Does your digital life have side effects? 
Do apps help you or just waste your time? 
Do you spend too much time on smart phones playing ‘stupid games’? 
When do you choose making a phone call over sending a text? 
Do you know how to code? Would you like to learn? 
Whom would you share your passwords with? 
What are your favorite video games? 
What have you learned playing video games? 
Do you play violent video games? 
When should you feel guilty for killing zombies? 
Who are your opponents in online gaming? 
Do you like watching other people play video games? 
How careful are you online? 
Do you ever seek advice on the Internet? 
How do you know if what you read online is true? 
How much do you trust online reviews? 
How do you use Wikipedia? 
What are your favorite Internet spoofs? 
What are your favorite viral videos? 
What would you teach the world in an online video? 
What are your experiences with Internet-based urban legends? 
What story does your personal data tell? 
Do you worry about the lack of anonymity in the digital age? 
Do you wish you had more privacy online? 
Have you ever been scammed? 
How do you use Facebook? 
What is your Facebook persona? 
What memorable experiences have you had on Facebook? 
Does Facebook ever make you feel bad? 
Would you consider deleting your Facebook account? 
Do you have ‘Instagram envy’? 
Do you use Twitter? 
Why do you share photos? 
How do you archive your life? 
Have you ever posted, emailed or texted something you wish you could take back? 
Have you ever sent an odd message because of auto-correct? 
Would you want your photo or video to go viral? 
Do you worry colleges or employers might read your social media posts someday? 
What are you listening to? 
Who in your life introduces you to new music? 
How much is your taste in music based on what your friends like? 
What music inspires you? 
How closely do you listen to lyrics? 
Which pop music stars fascinate you? 
Who is your favorite pop diva? 
What’s your karaoke song? 
What song/artist pairings would you like to hear? 
What were the best movies you saw in the past year? 
What movies do you watch, or reference, over and over? 
What movies, shows or books do you wish had sequels, spinoffs or new episodes? 
Do you like horror movies? 
Who are your favorite movie stars? 
Would you pay extra for a 
D movie? 
What is your favorite comedy? 
What are the best live theatrical performances you’ve ever seen? 
Have you ever stumbled upon a cool public performance? 
What role does television play in your life and the life of your family? 
What television shows have mattered to you? 
Do your television viewing habits include ‘bingewatching’? 
How often do you watch a television show when it originally airs? 
What old television shows would you bring back? 
Why do we like reality shows so much? 
What ideas do you have for a reality show? 
What are your favorite commercials? 
Prompts for Narrative and Personal Writin 
How much are you influenced by advertising? 
Read any good books lately? 
Do you read for pleasure? 
What are your favorite books and authors? 
What are the best things you’ve read, watched, heard or played this year? 
What are your favorite young adult novels? 
What’s on your summer reading list? 
What memorable poetry have you ever read or heard? 
What are your favorite cartoons? 
What magazines do you read, and how do you read them? 
Do you enjoy reading tabloid gossip? 
When have you seen yourself and your life reflected in a book or other media? 
Do you prefer your children’s book characters obedient or contrary? 
Do you read e-books? 
Would you trade your paper books for digital versions? 
To what writer would you award a prize? 
Why do you write? 
Do you keep a diary or journal? 
Do you have a blog? 
Do you want to write a book? 
When do you write by hand? 
Do you write in cursive? 
Do you write in your books? 
What ‘mundane moments’ from your life might make great essay material? 
What’s the coolest thing you’ve ever seen in a museum? 
What are the most memorable works of visual art you have seen? 
What are your favorite works of art? 
What are your favorite and least favorite words? 
What words or phrases do you think are overused? 
How much slang do you use? What are your favorite (printable) words? 
How much do you curse? Why? 
Why do so many people say ‘like’ and ‘totally’ all the time? 
Do you sometimes ‘hide’ behind irony? 
How good is your grammar? 
What new emoticons does the world need? 
Are you fluent in vocal fry, creaky voice or uptalk? 
How much information is ‘too much information’? 
When did you last have a great conversation? 
Do you speak a second, or third, language? 
When do you remember learning a new word? 
Do you like school? 
What are you really learning at school? 
What are you looking forward to, or dreading, this school year? 
Would you want to be home-schooled? 
Would you like to take a class online? 
Would you rather attend a public or a private high school? 
How would you grade your school? 
What can other schools learn — and copy — from your school? 
Is your school day too short? 
What do you hope to get out of high school? 
Do you have too much homework? 
Does your homework help you learn? 
What is your best subject? 
What memorable experiences have you had in learning science or math? 
Are you afraid of math? 
Do we need a new way to teach math? 
What are the best ways to learn about history? 
How would you do on a civics test? 
How important is arts education? 
What is your most memorable writing assignment? 
What would you like to have memorized? 
Does your school value students’ digital skills? 
What was your favorite field trip? 
Do you participate in class? 
What are your best tips for studying? 
Do you use study guides? 
Is everything you’ve been taught about study habits wrong? 
How well do you think standardized tests measure your abilities? 
Do you have a tutor? 
Are your grades inflated? 
When has a teacher inspired you? 
What teacher do you appreciate? 
What teacher would you like to thank? 
What do you wish your teachers knew about you? 
Do your test scores reflect how good your teachers are? 
Do your teachers use technology well? School Social Environment 
What role do school clubs and teams play in your life? 
Who has the power in school social life? 
How big a problem is bullying or cyberbullying in your school or community? 
Does your school seem integrated? 
What’s the racial makeup of your school? 
Do you ever ‘mix it up’ and socialize with different people at school? 
Can students at your school talk openly about their mental health issues? 
Is your school a ‘party school’? 
How common is drug use in your school? 
Do you know people who cheat on high-stakes tests? 
How does your school deal with students who misbehave? 
How much does your life in school intersect with your life outside school? 
Would you ever go through hazing to be part of a group? 
Where do you want to go to college? 
What are your sources for information about colleges and universities? 
Is college overrated? 
How much does the SAT or ACT matter in your life? 
What personal essay topic would you assign to college applicants? 
What qualities would you look for in a college roommate? 
What would you do with a gap year? 
What makes a graduation ceremony memorable? 
How do you feel about proms? 
What are your longtime interests or passions? 
Do you have a life calling? 
What do you want to do with your life? 
Do you think you will have a career that you love? 
What investment are you willing to make to get your dream job? 
Would you consider a nontraditional occupation? 
Would you want to be a teacher? 
What hidden talents might you have? 
What do you hope to be doing the year after you graduate from college? 
Would you rather work from home or in an office? 
What career or technical classes do you wish your school offered? 
What ‘back-to-the-land’ skills do you have, or wish you had? 
What have you made yourself? 
What would you create if you had funding? 
How did you start doing something you love? 
Did you ever take a break from doing something you love? 
What have you done to earn money? 
Do you have a job? 
Would you quit if your values did not match your employer’s? 
What are your attitudes toward money? 
Can money buy you happiness? 
Where do you see yourself in 
years?
What do you want your obituary to say? 
Have you ever been in love? 
What are the most meaningful relationships in your life? 
What advice would you give to somebody who just started dating? 
What are the basic ‘rules’ for handling breakups? 
What are your beliefs about marriage? 
Are you allowed to date? 
Is dating a thing of the past? 
Do you have a best friend? 
How do you feel about introducing friends from different parts of your life? 
How should you handle the end of a friendship? 
How often do you have ‘deep discussions’? Sports, Exercise and Games 
Do you like to exercise? 
How has exercise changed your health, your body or your life? 
Why do you play sports? 
What is the most memorable sporting event you’ve ever watched or played in? 
What’s the most impressive sports moment you’ve seen? 
When has a sports team most disappointed you? 
What sports teams do you root for? 
Does being a fan help define who you are? 
How far would you go to express loyalty to your favorite teams? 
What fan memorabilia would you pay big bucks for? 
What rules would you like to see changed in your favorite sports? 
What game would you like to redesign? 
What are your favorite games? 
Where in the world would you travel if you could? 
What is your fantasy vacation? 
What would your fantasy road trip be like? 
What crazy adventure would you want to take? 
How has travel affected you? 
What famous landmarks have you visited? 
What’s the coolest thing you’ve ever seen in nature? 
What are the best souvenirs you’ve ever collected while traveling? 
Would you like to live in another country? 
Would you want to be a space tourist? Looks, Fashion and Health 
What does your hairstyle say about you? 
How far would you go for fashion? 
What are the hot fashion trends at your school right now? 
Do you have a signature clothing item? 
Has anyone ever said that you look like someone famous? 
Would you ever consider getting a tattoo? 
What are your opinions on cosmetic surgery? 
Do Photoshopped images make you feel bad about your own looks? 
What are your sleep habits? 
How much of a priority do you make sleep? 
Do you get enough sleep? 
What health tips have worked for you? Shopping and Driving 
What’s your favorite store? Why? 
To what company would you write a letter of complaint or admiration? 
To what business would you like to give advice? 
How would you make over your mall? 
Do you shop at locally owned businesses? 
What are the best things you’ve acquired secondhand? 
How important is it to have a driver’s license? 
Are you a good driver? 
What are the most memorable meals you’ve ever had? 
What’s your favorite holiday food memory? 
What’s your comfort food? 
What are your favorite junk foods? 
What food would you like to judge in a taste-off? 
Do you prefer your tacos ‘authentic’ or ‘appropriated’? 
Do you pay attention to nutrition labels on food? 
How concerned are you about where your food comes from? 
Are your eating habits healthy? 
What are your ‘food rules’? 
Do you eat too quickly? 
What do you eat during the school day? 
Do you eat cafeteria food? 
How much food does your family waste? 
What messages about food and eating have you learned from your family? 
What’s your favorite restaurant? 
What restaurant would you most like to review? 
Do you cook? 
What would you most like to learn to cook or bake? 
How can people make the most of long holiday weekends? 
What’s your Sunday routine? 
What’s on your fall fashion shopping list? 
Will you be wearing a Halloween costume this year? 
Do you like scary movies and books? 
Do you believe in ghosts? 
What are your Thanksgiving traditions? 
What are your tips for enjoying the holiday season? 
How will you spend the holiday break? 
Do you make New Year’s resolutions? 
How do you fight the winter blues? 
What are your experiences with severe weather? 
How do you feel about Valentine’s Day? 
How do you celebrate spring? 
What would your fantasy spring break be like? 
How careful are you in the sun? 
What are you looking forward to this summer? 
What would your ideal summer camp be like? 
What are your favorite summer hangouts? 
What’s your favorite summer food? 
What is your favorite summer movie? 
Do you have a summer job? 
Do you choose summer activities to look good on applications? 
What are the best things you did this summer? 
How do you prepare to go back to school? Beliefs, Politics and Current Events 
How would you like to help our world? 
What cause would get you into the streets? 
What would you risk your life for? 
When have you spoken out about something you felt had to change? 
What would you invent to make the world a better place? 
How do you feel about zoos? 
What is your relationship with guns? 
Do you trust your government? 
Do you know your First Amendment rights? 
Do you worry about terrorism? 
Do you believe in intelligent alien life? 
Given unlimited resources, what scientific or medical problem would you investigate? 
What would you do if you were president? 
Would you vote this year if you could? 
Do you consider yourself a Republican, Democrat or independent? 
What event in the past do you wish you could have witnessed? 
What are the most important changes, in your life and in the world, in the last decade? 
What news stories are you following? 
How do you get your news? 
Why should we care about events in other parts of the world? 
What questions do you have about how the world works? 
What big questions do you have? If Only… 
What would you do if you won the lottery? 
What superpower do you wish you had? 
What era do you wish you had lived in? 
Would you want to be a tween or teen star? 
Would you want to grow up in the public eye? 
What kind of robot would you want? 
What would you outsource if you could? 
What would you like to learn on your own? 
What would you wait in line for?
If I could become invisible... 
The happiest moment of my life. 
This is my father’s/mother’s job. 
My accomplishments. 
Reasons why people lie. 
Why I like animals. 
Reasons for going to church. 
My favorite movie. 
These are the reasons why I don’t go to church. 
My favorite television show. 
The meaning of “freedom”. 
My fondest school memory. 
I will tell you a story that is only half true. 
The person that I admire. 
Why do nations wage wars? 
The most interesting person that I have ever met. 
There will be peace on earth only when... 
The biggest mess that I ever got myself into. 
I have something to tell you teacher. 
My fondest childhood memory. 
Did you know that... 
This is my hobby. 
The scariest thing that ever happened to me. 
My biggest goal in life. 
I once had a scary dream. 
Things are not going well for me right now. 
The strangest dream I ever had. 
My parents. 
I believe in God. 
My religion. 
I don’t believe in God because... 
My first flight. 
The meaning of Christmas. 
I like..., and these are the reasons why. 
Hockey is my life. 
I very much dislike..., because... 
I get scared when... 
My life as a citizen of a new country. 
I wish that I could... 
What I think about vandalism, drugs and smoking. 
I am happy when... 
Ways in which troubled kids can be helped. 
I am sad when... 
Reasons why people argue. 
The things that get me upset. 
The best book that I ever read. 
My favorite subject. 
This book was really bad. 
My least favorite subject. 
I often get frustrated. 
I just can’t seem to get along with anyone 
Dear teacher, I would like to ask you some questions. 
The things that bug me. 
Dear teacher, there is something that you need to know. 
Why is it that...? 
This is my family. 
When I become an adult this is what I will be like. 
When I grow up. 
My future wife. 
Our most interesting substitute teacher. 
My future husband. 
My most embarrassing moment. 
If I could change the world I would do the following. 
I watch too much television 
My wish. 
The most interesting place that I have ever visited. 
The present that I would like to receive. 
What I would do if I were rich. 
Qualities that I look for in a friend. 
My three wishes. 
The greatest summer ever. 
What I think about gambling. 
The greatest vacation ever. 
My best friend. 
I like cars. 
Friendship is... 
My favorite and least liked foods. 
Why I think friendships are important. 
I have a disability. 
This is my home. 
When I take a long look in the mirror this is what I see. 
I play a musical instrument. 
What I would like to do when I get older. 
My experience at the hospital. 
How the problem of hunger can be solved. 
Things that I like about our school. 
The problem of crime can be eliminated by... 
Things that I don’t like about our school. 
If I could live anywhere in the world it would be... 
This is my favorite sport. 
Music is an important part of my life. 
I would like to tell you about my class. 
Why are so many people selfish, greedy and unfriendly? 
These are some things that I do very well. 
Things that I like doing. 
The proudest moment of my life. 
The things that really bother me. 
The saddest moment of my life. 
My favorite music group. 
I would like to tell you what is on my mind. 
I wish people knew the following about me. 
I am scared of bugs and other insects. 
How to deal with anger. 
The most important thing in my life. 
Creative excuse for not getting an assignment done. 
The most important person in my life. 
These are my special friends. 
The things that I collect. 
I would be a better person if... 
For my next birthday I wish that I could get... 
I could, this is what I would like to change about me. 
My role model. 
The greatest mistake I ever made. 
I have attended several schools. 
I like watching scary movies. 
I am looking forward to... 
Creating horror movies is wrong. 
Why is there so much suffering in the world? 
If I knew that I could never die... 
Life after death? This is my opinion. 
If I was all-powerful and all-knowing. 
This is how ... works. 
If I were as small as a fly... 
How I spend my leisure time. 
If I could travel into the future. 
My favorite time of the year. 
If I could travel into the past. 
There is too much violence on television. 
If I could be anyone for a day I would be... 
Watching television can negatively effect your future. 
Animals are often more pleasant than human beings. 
If I could buy anything I would purchase the following... 
The “eleventh” commandment. 
If I had a real magic wand. 
To my greatest love I would give the following gifts. 
I wish that I could be like... 
What I like and dislike about living in a city. 
Going to school is important. 
The greatest prank I ever pulled. 
If I knew that I had only one week to live. 
The nicest thing I ever did. 
The most interesting school trip. 
I love my computer. 
The countries that I have visited. 
The greatest movie ever made. 
My opinion about lying. 
Being a pet has its advantages. 
The problems with today’s media. 
Life as a teenager. 
Our polluted earth and what we can do about it. 
At the end of a rainbow one can find... 
I have a complaint or two. 
I believe in ghosts. 
Job description for an ideal profession. 
Pain is... 
How my life would change if I were to live on my own. 
World without... (wheels, electricity, death, money etc.) 
If I could be a leader of our country. 
The world’s greatest person. 
The most amazing thing that ever happened to me. 
The most famous person I have ever met. 
If I were a teacher for a day. 
I get angry when... 
If I were a parent for a day. 
I would like to tell you about my brother/sister. 
Television is worth watching because... 
My grandparents. 
Happiness is... 
The riskiest thing that I ever did. 
My greatest fear. 
The most unstable period in my life. 
Life on other planets. 
Love of money is the root of all evil. 
Crime does not pay. 
Why I am scared of dentists and/or other doctors. 
Being a friend is more than just... 
My favorite clothes. 
Life is worth living. 
Love is... 
If I were stranded on a deserted island. 
This is how I think the world will end. 
My first visit to a hospital. 
Hate is... 
How I would survive being lost in the wilderness. 
Commitment is important. 
The greatest person who ever lived. 
This is my life. 
I often panic when... 
The first person I ever fell in love with. 
I can’t stand the cold weather! 
I enjoy watching storms. 
Being rich means... 
My secret desire. 
My best features are... 
I am a very special person. 
My best qualities. 
Our world is full of negative influences. 
Being successful means... 
The most useful skill. 
Me and my big mouth! 
The things that confuse me. 
I enjoy shopping. 
I love my... 
The dangers of gossip. 
I once almost... 
Being creative means... 
Journal writing is... 
Treat others the way you would like to be treated. 
I enjoy sleeping in. 
Ways in which our class could be improved. 
This is how day and night happen. 
I have several suggestions. 
This is how the world began. 
All religions are the same. 
My favorite desserts. 
All religions are not the same. 
People should make an effort to get along. 
The things without which I simply couldn’t live. 
Health is important. 
Life would be easier if... 
Where did human beings originate? 
If I didn’t have to go to school... 
Believe it or not... 
I feel sorry for... 
Believe it or not, I once... 
My opinion about exercise. 
I believe in UFOs. 
Discipline at our school. 
Reasons why I don’t give it my best in school. 
The teachers at my school. 
School, a positive and negative experience. 
I wonder if... 
Some things that I will always regret doing. 
Please help me. 
The final message to my teacher. 
I love my computer. 
If I had my own computer. 
I find computers intimidating. 
I like camping. 
Those were the good old days. 
My favorite memory. 
It always seems to happen to me. 
I wish that our school didn’t have... 
Death is... 
A letter to a celebrity. 
The mistakes that my parents are making. 
The ideal school. 
The best car in the world. 
Ten reasons why friends have fights. 
I am proud of my country. 
When I get scared I... 
I am proud of who I am. 
I enjoy watching television. 
Some of the things our world could do without. 
My parents are very strict. 
I feel so insecure. 
My favorite song. 
The difficulties of being a teenager. 
The most meaningful moment of my life. 
Our school could use a change. 
I couldn’t exist without... 
I always live by the following rules. 
It’s just not fair! 
If I could be a principal for a day. 
The ideal family. 
Cooperation is the answer. 
The ideal world. 
How I learned to ride my bike. 
I can’t wait for Summer. 
Slowing down and smelling the flowers is important. 
Why is everyone in a rush? 
Being educated means... 
My personal “ten commandments”. 
Things that I just can’t seem to do. 
My greatest discovery. 
Wrong role models. 
I feel very ... today. 
Problems caused by drinking alcohol. 
The sounds I hear in our classroom. 
Drinking and driving are a deadly mix. 
My best birthday ever. 
Avoid “the quick sand” crowd. 
I don’t like my neighborhood. 
This person has it all. 
My pet peeves. 
I often feel lazy. 
My neighborhood. 
I feel at my very best when... 
I would like to tell you about... 
I hope that I never... 
My five-year plan. 
The accident I witnessed. 
My ten-year plan. 
The ... I witnessed. 
The ideal me. 
When I become a parent. 
If I could be good at anything I would like it to be... 
We should be thankful for... 
Thirty years from now... 
I was once in a car accident. 
How can there be infinity? 
The car accident that changed my life. 
If there is an end to the universe what is on the other side? 
Do I ever love shopping! 
Dog is “man’s best friend”. 
I can’t stand going shopping with ... 
The reasons why I often get lazy. 
My chores and responsibilities. 
I am very good at building things. 
This is what I think of exercise. 
The most interesting person that I ever met. 
If I were a film director I would make a film about ... 
These are my relatives. 
These are the things that my friends and I enjoy doing 
I am prone to accidents. 
My family and I get to do a lot of traveling. 
All the bad things seem to happen to me! 
The most fascinating place in the world. 
I will tell you about my nightmares. 
I will tell you about my favorite video game. 
I flew in an airplane. 
Playing video games may be hazardous to your mind. 
The things that I wish I could do. 
I am addicted to ... 
If I could be honest with my teachers I would tell ... 
Being a teenager has is advantages and disadvantages. 
I am scared of ... 
I can’t wait to become an adult. 
Television, then and now. 
How I would solve the problem of poverty. 
Movies, then and now. 
Money isn’t everything. 
If God really did exist then ... 
The reasons why people get unusual haircuts. 
I am always bored and I don’t know what to do about it. 
I will explain to you why I think people wear earrings. 
Life is boring. 
The “X” generation. 
The day I began to wear glasses. 
I can’t stand hearing about the subject of politics. 
Life and being alive is exciting! 
Most politicians are crooks. 
I can truly say that I never get bored. 
Computers are confusing, complicated and frustrating. 
I hate exercising. 
Computer technology is absolutely amazing! 
My imagination often gets me into trouble. 
I love using computers. 
Gambling is wrong. 
The computer equipment I have at home. 
Where does the freedom of choice end? 
The computer equipment I wish I had. 
Honesty is the thread that binds a healthy society. 
One day the computers will ... 
Spiders, insects and creepy, slithering things scare me. 
Sports, the new gods of our century. 
May I tell you about my crazy friends? 
Our polluted and endangered world. 
Someone should do something about ... 
Evolution or Creation? 
Watching professional wrestling may be hazardous. 
I love reading books, and this is my favorite book. 
Some people are clean and well organized by nature. 
Women are better at some things than men. 
The rules that I live by. 
The things that men do better than women. 
The most important rule. 
Men and women are equal. 
Life is a great mystery. 
There are many differences between men and women. 
I feel confused. 
I wish that everyone would simply get along. 
Today I feel very happy. 
This is my future. 
Why are there so many religions in this world? 
My past. 
Will somebody tell me what is going on? 
I believe in miracles. 
The worst smell that my nose ever had to endure. 
Killing is wrong. 
The habits I would like to get rid of. 
I agree with capital punishment. 
A very special moment. 
I disagree with capital punishment. 
Accidents will happen! 
If God does not exist then who makes the rules? 
The worst weather I ever experienced. 
I am not very good at ... 
I do not celebrate the following holidays. 
I am a “night” person. 
My favorite expression or saying. 
My musical instrument. 
Could you please help me? 
Where does the universe end? 
I was been born in a wrong century. 
Where is the end of universe and what is on the other side? 
My childhood. 
What existed before the universe was created? 
final words to this world will likely be ... 
Things that are important in life. 
I am afraid of dying. 
Death is nothing to be scared of. 
The coolest teaching assistant we ever had. 
The challenges I face in life. 
The need for salvation, fact or fiction. 
Hell is ... 
The most difficult student in our class. 
Heaven is a place where ... 
Our school Principal. 
I want be a car mechanic. 
The best school I attended. 
I am a very moody person. 
My solution to pollution. 
If my airplane was about to crash ... 
The reasons why many creatures are endangered. 
The chores I dread doing. 
I am in a rotten mood today and let me tell you why. 
What a camping trip! 
What I think of group work and cooperation. 
I often get scared thinking about the future. 
I enjoy gardening. 
Airplanes and flight fascinate me. 
Today I feel sick. 
The difference between cosmos and space. 
I don’t enjoy wearing glasses. 
Why do vegetarians eat only plants? 
How and when the universe was created. 
My deadliest encounter with the Principal. 
This is my opinion about the origin of life on earth. 
The worst storm I ever experienced. 
Gospel music. 
Computers and new technology frustrate me. 
Computers in the classroom. 
The meaning of life. 
Computers are a double-edged sword. 
There is nothing wrong with begging. 
My parents are divorced. 
Homelessness is a frightening idea. 
My parents are unique people. 
Is anyone listening to my prayers? 
We are a single parent family. 
Life is not fair. 
Our school custodian. 
Life is more than fair. 
My neighbors and their habits. 
If I were an animal I would like to be ... 
The first time I witnessed a funeral. 
My favorite substitute teacher. 
The first dead body I saw. 
The traffic nightmare. 
I don’t like going to funerals. 
The day I almost froze to death. 
My home town. 
Feminism, the pros and cons. 
I miss my old country 
Today is my birthday. 
I often find myself thinking negative thoughts. 
The rap music and its influences on the young. 
Winning is everything. 
We had a great party in our class. 
How to be successful in life. 
My teacher and I just don’t get along. 
True love means. 
I am a very forgetful person. 
The most important job in the world. 
Excuses for not doing homework. 
The most positive person I know. 
The best excuse ever. 
I am a very giving person. 
I would like to write a story about ... 
People often ignore me and put me down. 
I often daydream about ... 
I love going to our cottage. 
I wish that I could get out of this class. 
How men and women should relate. 
Some people have problems with personal hygiene. 
My own solution to the vandalism problem. 
Those who don’t work don’t get to eat. 
I often feel very lonely. 
Sunday afternoon drive into the country. 
Carrying a grudge ... 
My opinion about Christian music. 
Let’s talk about ... 
My participation in the Science Fair. 
Money, fame, and power. 
Our church youth group. 
The issue of honesty. 
Major world religions. 
I wish I had a different family. 
The most memorable school project. 
My troubles with ... 
Our school dances. 
Having the right attitude is everything. 
Everyone needs to do their share. 
I feel guilty about ... 
I am troubled. 
Ten reasons for staying in school. 
I have a fear of flying. 
I am an optimist. 
I don’t get the smile stickers any more. 
Spelling, spelling! What’s the big deal? 
What’s on my mind today. 
My daddy is in the hospital. 
I seem very irritable lately. 
Having faith in God is not important. 
My hobby. 
My thoughts on abstinence. 
I am thrilled about flying. 
My handwriting is awful. 
My nightmare woke me up. 
Life without homework. 
The unique substitute teacher. 
Learning grammar is dull but important. 
I wish that I could change my teachers. 
I am leaving school early today. 
The first snowfall. 
Why do some go to church only twice a year? 
I am always short of money. 
My momma is in the hospital. 
I wish that I had more money for clothes. 
The two biggest issues I am faced with. 
I once knew a person who ... 
My family is extremely poor. 
Wearing appropriate clothing is important. 
When I die I will go to ... 
The fussiest person ever. 
I was robbed. 
I am getting in a Christmas mood. 
I am already tired of school. 
Our school appears very dirty. 
I wish that my neighborhood ... 
I get very nervous before major tests. 
I will tell you about my scars. 
Our parks are filled with broken glass. 
Getting a tattoo. 
Important world issues. 
Prayer in our schools. 
Why do we have to do homework? 
Going to school is a lot of fun this year. 
Someone stole something from me. 
Junk food. 
Christmas, a time for ... 
The thing that I value the most. 
Both of my parents are very ill. 
Misery and Suffering, my two friends. 
Dinosaurs and the reason for their extinction. 
What can I do about ... 
She just can’t stop talking. 
Earth Day. 
Garbage, garbage, garbage… garbage everywhere! 
Our computer lab. 
My sick relative. 
The pros and cons of Special Education. 
I really long for ... 
Will our country ever separate? 
My dearest friend. 
Some talk shows are getting out of hand. 
My worst enemy. 
The baby-sitting nightmare. 
The day when time stood still. 
I don’t know very many people. 
I need to apologize. 
I left my heart in ... 
The benefits of being physically active. 
Terrorism in the world. 
I have not behaved responsibly today. 
Who needs computers? 
I have been disciplined unfairly. 
Why I choose to drink alcohol. 
I feel sorry for some kids in our class. 
Space station, a possibility? 
Going to church is not important. 
I don’t enjoy washing the dishes. 
Attending a church is very important. 
The Lifeguard that I fell in love with. 
The most thrilling day of my life. 
Are our schools really teaching us what is important? 
He is truly an amazing human being! 
I am always the one who is stuck with cleaning. 
I can’t think of anything to write. 
Halloween, a trick or treat? 
The photos of myself always turn out lousy. 
Organ transplants. 
Sex education in our school. 
The amazing Star Trek series. 
Should we still celebrate Christmas? 
Shopping can be dangerous to your health! 
One day I will travel around the world. 
My favorite “quiet time”. 
Commercialism in Christmas. 
Photography, the king of hobbies. 
I like watching nature shows. 
I cheated on a test. 
I miss my ... 
I love plants and gardens. 
I saw someone stealing. 
Visiting my friends. 
Having faith in God is important. 
Are ghosts real? 
In our family ... 
I am totally against smoking. 
I want to be a doctor. 
Everyone has the right to do whatever they wish. 
When I face death ... 
My fantasy. 
Space, infinitely amazing space! 
The power struggle with my teacher. 
Interstellar travel, a possibility or not. 
Nobody knows the troubles I have seen. 
I have a computer phobia. 
I just can’t sit still all day. 
School bullies. 
I can’t wait for Spring. 
Sibling rivalry and me. 
I can’t wait for Christmas. 
My brother and I just don’t get along. 
I can be trusted. 
My special brother/sister. 
I choose to be the way I am. 
I spent a whole day in isolation. 
I didn't choose to be the way I am. 
How to improve our class atmosphere. 
This was not my fault. 
Our school bus driver. 
Let’s make a deal.. 
Our schools should teach us ... 
My future. 
The dreaded visits to the Principal’s office. 
My past. 
My first visit to the Principal’s office. 
Why are people so unfair? 
The punishment for cheating in school. 
My teacher picks on me. 
My cousin is coming for a visit. 
I don’t know anything about anything. 
I am very disorganized. 
I wish that we went out for dinner more often. 
Technology, a friend or a foe? 
The people I would like to surround myself with. 
When I grow up I want to work with hands. 
I made some inappropriate choices. 
My future family. 
Why are adults are not treating me well? 
My first school suspension. 
Someone touched me inappropriately. 
I would like to learn how to play ... 
We never have anything exciting to eat. 
I have never seen an ocean. 
The people on my street have changed. 
I enjoy sleeping late on Saturdays. 
We are moving soon. 
My part-time job. 
I enjoy controlling others. 
In our school ... 
I often get abused. 
The Monopoly game. 
Things that I care about. 
I can’t wait to get a driver’s license. 
How I relieve stress in my life. 
Why I choose to smoke. 
I have had several new teachers for the same class. 
The pranks kids play at our school. 
Selecting clothes to wear each day is such a chore. 
Our family’s biggest event. 
Lunch, my favorite period. 
We always have a lot of fun in the snow. 
I am the best person for the job. 
My brother and I can’t seem to stop arguing. 
I went to work with my dad. 
The time the power went off. 
I finally learned how to swim. 
In our family dinner time is the time when ... 
I feel that I am ugly. 
Our adventures in the snow. 
My life has improved. 
My favorite pop. 
I am overdue for a change. 
I really enjoy science. 
The fakes and crooks that I know. 
Yesterday ... 
I saw a drug dealer today. 
Every weekend ... 
We have a fantastic team. 
I often have nothing to say. 
My dad lets me use his tools. 
I just don’t learn the way everyone else learns. 
I don’t enjoy looking at myself in the mirror. 
The most dangerous prank. 
My partner. 
Not one person cares about me. 
My bones have been broken in several places. 
Our long vacation drive. 
The teachers that wouldn’t give up on me. 
Let me tell you why I misbehave in class. 
My plans for this year. 
I feel awkward in a group setting. 
What I value in life. 
I tend to be a loner. 
I will tell you why I am always quiet. 
What do you think of this idea? 
I am a workaholic. 
I don't need school in order to be successful. 
My haunting daily fears. 
It is difficult for me to focus on my tasks. 
I would like to experiment with ... 
The time that I cried. 
I am a proud and confident person. 
I can’t remember the last time I cried. 
I am a very insecure individual who needs help. 
My real dad. 
I am confused. 
My real mom. 
Try solving the following riddles. 
I should have kept my mouth shut. 
I will now describe to you my favorite food. 
The bullies that I have to deal with every day. 
The nightmare at the hospital. 
I am struggling and I can’t take it any more. 
I miss my old friends. 
My favorite place. 
I wish that I could be an adult right now. 
Teachers are all the same. 
I feel very sick today. 
Something unusual I did today. 
I am just not interested in sports. 
How I wish I went on a vacation. 
Discipline in our schools. 
I am a very hyper person and can’t seem to control it. 
Our class discipline. 
Next year will be the right time for starting a new life. 
Why am I so different? 
What exactly is at the end of cosmos? 
When I am afraid ... 
We live in a very unique world. 
But you just don’t understand! 
The time I got lost. 
The reason I stopped drinking. 
The twenty most important words. 
Taking my medications in school is embarrassing. 
The good things about our education system. 
My parents just don’t understand me. 
The negative things about our education system. 
I enjoy playing my instrument. 
The winter of pure delightful fun. 
I always get interrupted when I talk. 
Why do you always give us too much homework? 
People always call me names. 
Should Halloween be celebrated in the public schools? 
I have many talents. 
I believe in spiritual beings. 
I have an idea I would like to share with you. 
I am proud of my accomplishments. 
Our playground is a dangerous place. 
I am a very active person. 
I would like the following questions answered please. 
I am superstitious. 
What a horrible experience that was. 
Dear teacher, I have some advice for you. 
I have my own garden. 
I find myself feeling angry and resentful. 
Our Science Fair. 
My most interesting conversation. 
Things that are important to me. 
I enjoy drama. 
I befriended a new student. 
The whole world is a stage. 
I always help my mother prepare meals. 
My secret fantasy. 
The best way to succeed today is ... 
I enjoy laughing. 
I am worried about my family. 
Things that make me nervous. 
I am starved for some good food. 
My favorite board game. 
I am not a technically minded person. 
Good news - bad news. 
I am often misunderstood by others. 
Horoscopes are unscientific. 
I enjoy planting seeds and watching them grow. 
My first job. 
If I could invent something it would be ... 
Too many television commercials. 
I love going to the beach. 
Why bother? 
Single-parent families. 
Knowledge is the key to gaining power. 
The day I almost drowned. 
The things I derive pleasure from. 
My pet is absolutely wild. 
The things I derive pleasure from. 
My pet is a psycho. 
I like and prefer to work by myself. 
The first thing I would save in a house fire. 
I need help! 
There is more to life than sports. 
Writing is not my favorite activity. 
I choose to be an optimist in a pessimistic world. 
I am so scared! 
I am a vegetarian. 
I love my family. 
What I think of racism. 
My worst bodily injury. 
Let me tell you what it’s like ... 
My dad has a very difficult job. 
The nightmare I remember. 
People shouldn’t kill animals for meat. 
There will never be peace on earth. 
My single-parent mom is a very hard worker. 
I am afraid of needles. 
I don’t have a problem with eating meat. 
I wish that I could help my friend. 
Our basement is a great place for playing. 
The truth about ... 
My favorite dish. 
If I could write a book it would be about ... 
Let me tell you about what I can do. 
I love my pet. 
I am not motivated to do anything. 
Should animals be used for research? 
Housework is for women only. 
Instead of collecting taxes the government should ... 
Housework can be done by men too. 
If God doesn’t exist then ... 
I am tired of writing stories in school. 
I spend my whole summer ... 
The dullest person I ever met. 
I want to become a veterinarian. 
The obstacles I am facing in my life. 
My father just lost his job. 
If I could be an animal I would be ... 
I am against/ for clear cutting old forests. 
Two working parents and children do not mix. 
I don’t like being in a special education class. 
The day I almost lost my life. 
Ideal job description. 
People today are not committed to a moral standard. 
The greatest destructive force in the world. 
This is my character sketch. 
The greatest enemy of our nation. 
My inspiration. 
The axis of evil. 
I once participated in ... 
If Darwin’s Theory of Evolution is correct then ... 
If I were as small as Tom Thumb. 
Downloading music through the internet. 
Why do I talk to myself all the time? 
I feel very depressed. 
I help my older neighbors with their chores. 
The worst punishment I ever experienced. 
People of faith are law abiding citizens. 
The best way to protect our environment. 
Believers in God are wasting their time. 
All weapons of mass destruction should be destroyed. 
Friendship is ... 
Greed – healthy/ unhealthy emotion. 
If I were a giant. 
The phobia I have to live with. 
Would I risk my life to save a friend? 
My parents’ divorce has ruined my life. 
I am a slow learner. 
Adjusting to my new country. 
Reasons why I do well in school. 
I have already started investing. 
I often sit around with nothing to do. 
How to solve the problem of crime. 
We have a new baby in our family. 
I am a very emotional person. 
What is the most important thing in life? 
Modern technology and its effects on our society. 
I saw a very good movie. 
I am tired of watching violence on TV. 
There is a special event coming up. 
Capitalism versus communism. 
The way I celebrate my birthday. 
My new chores around the house. 
Please help me with ... 
I renounce dishonesty. 
If I could teach my class something it would be ... 
Fads simply come and go. 
The field trip that went wrong from the word go. 
Being shy is one of my biggest problems. 
The most interesting science experiment. 
I miss my deceased grandfather/ grandmother. 
Adjusting to my step-mother and her family. 
Neither of my parents have a job. 
My step-father will never replace my real dad. 
My teachers are not fair to me. 
I am a very responsible person. 
The people I admire. 
I am not a very responsible person. 
Advantages of having a computer. 
Reasons why the Middle East is always in the news. 
I am afraid of public speaking. 
Our environment is in a serious danger. 
Who am I? 
I don’t believe in divorce. 
I can’t seem to handle very many things. 
I am terrified of flying. 
Five questions I would ask God. 
I don’t feel safe in my house. 
Next year ... 
Directions for how to make a ... 
Let me tell you about last summer. 
My three goals in life are ... 
The future of mankind. 
The first thing that came to my mind. 
Little evidence of caring in our world. 
My observations about our class. 
Why aren’t more people friendly and generous? 
Reasons for optimism. 
I don’t feel safe where we live. 
I really care about ... 
I am a very angry person. 
I know exactly what my career will be. 
I enjoy observing severe weather. 
Our world is an amazing place. 
Crossword puzzles are a great deal of fun. 
How I would help the disadvantaged. 
My favorite novel. 
Extreme nationalism can be a dangerous thing. 
The number one baseball player. 
My thoughts on war. 
I have read the Bible. 
I would like to publish a book one day. 
I have never read the Bible and have no interest. 
Ways our school can be improved. 
I would like to be an explorer. 
Our class curriculum can be improved. 
School is never fun for me. 
I just love riding my bicycle. 
What I think about “the new millennium”. 
I often feel so inadequate and awkward. 
Why I dress and behave differently. 
Ten things I dislike. 
I am a very creative person. 
Music is my life. 
My talents. 
Reasons why celebrating Earth Day is important. 
I don’t like taking frequent showers. 
I don’t know how to use the computer yet. 
Television is a drug. 
Next weekend ... 
The kinds of movies I like to watch. 
Miracle healers, fact or fiction. 
My first experience with the police. 
Something wonderful happened. 
When I get in trouble my punishment at home is ... 
What my first date will be like. 
Cars are simply too expensive. 
I feel so lonely and insecure without a girlfriend. 
Cars are detrimental to our environment. 
I feel very lonely without a boyfriend. 
I find interesting game boards interesting. 
Everyone seems to have a partner except me. 
The most exciting thing that happened in school. 
What I think of the major world religions. 
My first pair of glasses. 
I am a very fortunate person. 
My first camping experience. 
Our family has fallen on very hard times. 
I enjoy hiking the following trails. 
My opinion of fortune tellers. 
What is on the other side of the end of the universe? 
I have a good joke to tell you. 
Is it possible for a supernatural God to exist. 
If I had the power to run our school. 
I am already hooked on smoking and need help. 
When I have kids. 
How I began smoking. 
My experience with alcoholics. 
Computers and technology frustrate me. 
Computer skills are very important. 
Computers and I have nothing in common. 
My first love. 
What’s the big hoopla about the Internet all about? 
I argue a lot. 
Our school computers got the virus. 
My first date. 
I know someone who desperately needs help. 
I take advice only from ... 
I have to take medications for the rest of my life. 
You don’t know who your friends are until ... 
Keeping long-term friendships is very difficult. 
Television, the greatest baby-sitter. 
Everyone I know is either an alcoholic or on drugs. 
The police need our support. 
I enjoy cooking good food. 
I witnessed something very unpleasant. 
Anything is possible if you try and don’t quit. 
I would like to play an instrument. 
Juvenile delinquent laws are too soft. 
People that kill others should... 
Forms, applications and instructions confuse me. 
Extraterrestrial beings, fact or fiction. 
I am trying really hard but not getting anywhere. 
The first time I surfed the Internet. 
Exercise is the key to long and healthy life. 
Watching television takes away from creativity. 
Smoking cigarettes is a gamble.